Operating System:

1. What is the main purpose of an operating system? Discuss different types?

Main Purposes::

Convinience: Interface between user and hardware for managing the hardware/resources
Throughput: Increase the output. Number of prcesses by unit time. (does this by resource mgmt and process mgmt[cpu scheduling])
Storage mgmt: Through file system [for harddisk]
Memory mgmt: [for RAM] because ram is limited. OS does ram swapping
Security and privacy: No everyone can access the OS.You have to login first. Makes processes secure(security between processes)

Linux has more throughput than windows

Types::

Real time: No delays. Missile system or flight systems
Distributed: Processing environment is dispersed      connected with network.
Clustered: Multiple devices added to one network. Fault tolerence. Scalibility.
Embedded OS: in washing machine etc. instructions are embedded


Flow diagram of our PC: User-->Applications-->OS(Serves via system calls to hardware)-->Hardware

2. What is a socket, kernel and monolithic kernel ?

Sockets are strategy used for communication in client server system. It is the end point for communication
Socket is identified with IP address and port number.

Sockets are used to establish connection.It is kind of the opening list your electric socket.

These servers listens to these ports
Tenet port 23(remote login)
ftp 21 http 80
Ports below 1024 are reserved for standard services therefore use ports above 1024

KERNEL:
Much like an OS but not an OS. Heart of the operating system. Also present in phones Os if you have heard about it. KERNER IS A PART OF OS
Main purpose is disk mgmt , task mgmt, process mgmt but not security. An OS needs a kernel to run. Kerner resides in a part of RAM that is not accessible to us.Os the the first program that loads when conputer boots up and then OS launches the kernel.Its the first program to load when operating system loads.
Any program can be in user space or kernel space.Kernel is a connection between software and hardware. The program here is safe from disturbances from user space programs.Has almost all the permission. An exception in kernel space crashes the whole OS. User space has PVA. kernel has single PVA.
for program for execute it keeps switching between wser space and kernel space.

Types are monolithic and micro kernel
See difference in https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88vlIFfsmKM&list=PL0s3O6GgLL5csKdIeV-Z7fZXohZUMAAsG&index=11


Difference between process and program and thread? 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c0HbxwfxeMM
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ITc09gOrqZk

 Program::
 Executable code stored in harddisk

 Process::
 stack: in down dirction for function call.
 heap: dynamic memory allocation. grows upwards
 data: static global variables
 code: program code

 



Different types of process.
Define virtual memory, thrashing, threads.  
What is RAID ? Different types.
What is a deadlock ? Different conditions to achieve a deadlock.
What is fragmentation? Types of fragmentation.
What is spooling ?
What is semaphore and mutex (Differences might be asked)? Define Binary semaphore.
Belady’s Anomaly
Starving and Aging in OS
Why does trashing occur?
What is paging and why do we need it?
Demand Paging, Segmentation
Real Time Operating System, types of RTOS.
Difference between main memory and secondary memory.
Dynamic Binding
FCFS Scheduling
SJF Scheduling
SRTF Scheduling
LRTF Scheduling
Priority Scheduling
Round Robin Scheduling
Producer Consumer Problem
Banker’s Algorithm
Explain Cache
Diff between direct mapping and associative mapping
Diff between multitasking and multiprocessing
